Skip to main contentSkip to search Drupal.org homeWhy Drupal?Use casesResourcesServicesCommunityEventsDownloadGiveDemoSearch formSearch DocumentationSearchDrupal WikiDevelopCore modules and themesCore modulesJSON:API moduleCloseSupport for Drupal 7 is ending on 5 January 2025—it’s time to migrate to Drupal 10! Learn about the many benefits of Drupal 10 and find migration tools in our resource center.Learn more Design and Development tips in your inbox. Every weekday.ADS VIA CARBONAdvertising sustains the DA. Ads are hidden for members. Join todayOn this pageQuick StartSummaryBuilding FiltersCondition GroupsPathsShortcutsFilters and Access ControlFilter Examples1. Only get published nodes2. Get nodes by a value of a entity reference3. Nested Filters: Get nodes created by user admin4. Filtering with arrays: Get nodes created by users [admin, john].5. Grouping filters: Get nodes that are published and create by admin.6. Grouping grouped filters: Get nodes that are promoted or sticky and created by admin7. Filter for nodes where 'title' CONTAINS "Foo"8. Filter by non-standard complex fields (e.g. addressfield) 9. Filtering on Taxonomy term values (e.g. tags) 10. Filtering on Date (Date only, no time) 11. Filtering on empty array fieldsJSON:API moduleJSON:APIGlossary of TermsAPI OverviewCore ConceptsFilteringIncludesPaginationSortingRevisionsTranslationsGET, POST, PATCH and DELETEFetching resources (GET)Creating new resources (POST)Removing existing resources (DELETE)Updating existing resources (PATCH)Customizing ResourcesFile UploadsJSON:API vs. core's REST moduleWhat JSON:API DOESN'T doJSON:API ExtrasSecurity considerationsFilteringLast updated on 24 August 2022Collections are listings of resources. In a decoupled site, they're what you use to create things like a "New Content" list or "My content" section on the client-side.However, when you make an unfiltered request to a collection endpoint like /jsonapi/node/article, you'll just get every article that you're allowed to see.Without filters, you can't get only your articles or only articles about llamas.This guide will teach you how to build filters like a pro.Quick StartThe simplest, most common filter is a key-value filter:?filter[field_name]=value&filter[field_other]=valueThis matches all resources with "field_name" equal to "value" and "field_other" equal to "value".For everything else, read on!SummaryThe JSON:API module has some of the most robust and feature-rich filtering features around. All of that power comes with a bit of a learning curve though.By the end of this article, you'll be able make complex queries and reason about problems you may face, like "how do I get a list of an author's articles about llamas or the worlds fastest member of the animal kingdom, the peregrine falcon?"We're going to work our way up from the very basics. After that, we'll show you a few shortcuts that make writing filters a little faster and less verbose. Finally, we'll see a number of filter examples taken from the real world.If you're not a newcomer to Drupal, you've probably already used the Views module for these kinds of things. Unlike the REST module that comes with Drupal Core, JSON:API does not export Views results. Collections are JSON:APIs API-First replacement for exported "REST displays" in Views.Building FiltersThe fundamental building blocks of JSON:API's filters are conditions and groups. Conditions assert that something is true and groups let you compose those assertions into logical sets to make bigger condition groups. Those sets can be nested to make super fine queries. You can think of those nested sets like a tree:Conventional representation:a( b() && c( d() || e() ) )Tree representation: a / \ b & c / \ d | eIn both representations:"d" and "e" are members of "c" in an OR group."b" and "c" are members of "a" in an AND group.So, what's inside a condition?Let's get logical . Remember, a condition tells you a TRUE or FALSE thing about a resource and some assertion you make about it, like "was this entity created by a particular user?" When the condition is FALSE for a resource, that resource won't be included in the collection.A condition has 3 primary parts: a path, an operator and a value.A 'path' identifies a field on a resourceAn 'operator' is a method of comparisonA 'value' is the thing you compare againstIn pseudo-code, a condition is a thing that looks like this:($field !== 'space')Where:$field is the field of the resource identified by its 'path'the 'operator' is!==the 'value' is the string 'space'In the JSON:API module, we can't make it look as pretty as that because we need to make it work inside a URL query string. To do that, we represent each condition with key/value pairs.If we were filtering on a user's first name, a condition might look something like this:?filter[a-label][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[a-label][condition][operator]=%3D <- encoded "=" symbol&filter[a-label][condition][value]=JanisNotice that we put a label inside the first set of square brackets. We could easily have made it b-label or this_is_my_super_awesome_label or even an integer like 666  . The point is that every condition or group should have an identifier.But what if we have lots of Janises in the system?Let's add another filter so we only get Janises with a last name that starts with "J":?filter[first-name-filter][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[first-name-filter][condition][operator]=%3D <- encoded "="&filter[first-name-filter][condition][value]=Janis&filter[last-name-filter][condition][path]=field_last_name&filter[last-name-filter][condition][operator]=STARTS_WITH&filter[last-name-filter][condition][value]=JMaybe the plural of Janis is "Janii" ...There are many more filter operators than just = and STARTS_WITH. Here's the complete list that's taken right from the JSON:API codebase:\Drupal\jsonapi\Query\EntityCondition::$allowedOperators = [ '=', '<>', '>', '>=', '<', '<=', 'STARTS_WITH', 'CONTAINS', 'ENDS_WITH', 'IN', 'NOT IN', 'BETWEEN', 'NOT BETWEEN', 'IS NULL', 'IS NOT NULL',];Symbol operators need to be url-encoded. You can get the correct encoding with PHP's urlencode() function.Condition GroupsNow we know how to build conditions, but we don't yet know how to build groups of conditions. How do we build a tree like we saw above?In order to do that, we need to have a "group". A group is a set of conditions joined by a "conjunction." All groups have conjunctions and a conjunction is either AND or OR.Now our filter is a bit too specific! Let's say we want to find all users with a last name that starts with "J" and either have the first name "Janis" or the first name "Joan".To do that, we add a group:?filter[rock-group][group][conjunction]=ORThen, we need assign our filters to that new group.To do that, we add a memberOf key. Every condition and group can have a memberOf key. Tip: Groups can have a memberOf key just like conditions, which means we can have groups of groups !Note: Every filter without a memberOf key is assumed to be part of a "root" group with a conjunction of AND.All together now:?filter[rock-group][group][conjunction]=OR&filter[janis-filter][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[janis-filter][condition][operator]=%3D&filter[janis-filter][condition][value]=Janis&filter[janis-filter][condition][memberOf]=rock-group&filter[joan-filter][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[joan-filter][condition][operator]=%3D&filter[joan-filter][condition][value]=Joan&filter[joan-filter][condition][memberOf]=rock-group&filter[last-name-filter][condition][path]=field_last_name&filter[last-name-filter][condition][operator]=STARTS_WITH&filter[last-name-filter][condition][value]=JDoes that look familiar?It should, we saw it above as a tree: a a = root-and-group / \ / \ b = last-name-filterb c c = rock-group / \ / \ d = janis-filter d e e = joan-filterYou can nest these groups as deeply as your heart desires.PathsConditions have one last feature: 'paths'Paths provide a way to filter based on relationship values.Up to this point, we've just been filtering by the hypothetical field_first_name and field_last_name on the user resource.Let's imagine that we want to filter by the name of a user's career, where career types are stored as a separate resource. We could add a filter like this:?filter[career][condition][path]=field_career.name&filter[career][condition][operator]=%3D&filter[career][condition][value]=RockstarPaths use a "dot notation" to traverse relationships.If a resource has a relationship, you can add a filter against it by concatenating the relationship field name and the relationship's field name with a . (dot).You can even filter by relationships of relationships (and so on) just by adding more field names and dots.Tip: You can filter on a specific index of a relationship by putting a non-negative integer in the path. So the path some_relationship.1.some_attribute would only filter by the 2nd related resource.Tip: You can filter by sub-properties of a field. For example, a path like field_phone.country_code will work even though field_phone isn't a relationship.Tip: When filtering against configuration properties, you can use an asterisk (*) to stand-in for any portion of a path. For example, /jsonapi/field_config/field_config?filter[dependencies.config.*]=comment.type.comment would match all field configs in which ["attributes"]["dependencies"]["config"] (an indexed array) contains the value "comment.type.comment".ShortcutsThat's a lot of characters to type. Most of the time, you don't need such complicated filters and for those cases, the JSON:API module has a few "shortcuts" to help you write filters faster.When the operator is =, you don't have to include it. It's just assumed. Thus:?filter[a-label][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[a-label][condition][operator]=%3D <- encoded "=" symbol&filter[a-label][condition][value]=Janisbecomes?filter[janis-filter][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[janis-filter][condition][value]=JanisIt's also rare that you'll need to filter by the same field twice (although it's possible). So, when the operator is = and you don't need to filter by the same field twice, the path can be the identifier. Thus:?filter[janis-filter][condition][path]=field_first_name&filter[janis-filter][condition][value]=Janisbecomes?filter[field_first_name][value]=JanisThat extra value is pesky. That's why you can reduce the simplest equality checks down to a key-value form:?filter[field_first_name]=JanisFilters and Access ControlFirst, a warning: don't make the mistake of confusing filters for access control. Just because you've written a filter to remove something that a user shouldn't be able to see, doesn't mean it's not accessible. Always perform access checks on the backend.With that big caveat, let's talk about using filters to complement access control. To improve performance, you should filter out what your users will not be able to see. The most frequent support request in the JSON:API issue queues can be solved by this one simple trick!If you know your users cannot see unpublished content, add the following filter:?filter[status][value]=1Using this method, you'll lower the number of unnecessary requests that you need to make. That's because JSON:API doesn't return data for resources to which a user doesn't have access. You can see which resources may have been affected by inspecting the meta.errors section of JSON:API document.So, do your best to filter out inaccessible resources ahead of time.Filter Examples1. Only get published nodesA very common scenario is to only load the nodes that are published. This is a very easy filter to add.SHORTfilter[status][value]=1NORMALfilter[status-filter][condition][path]=statusfilter[status-filter][condition][value]=12. Get nodes by a value of a entity referenceA common strategy is to filter content by a entity reference.SHORTfilter[uid.id][value]=BB09E2CD-9487-44BC-B219-3DC03D6820CDNORMALfilter[author-filter][condition][path]=uid.idfilter[author-filter][condition][value]=BB09E2CD-9487-44BC-B219-3DC03D6820CDTo fully comply with the JSON API specification, while Drupal internally uses the uuid property, JSON API uses id instead.Since Drupal 9.3 it is possible to filter on target_id also instead of only filtering by uuid property.SHORTfilter[field_tags.meta.drupal_internal__target_id]=1NORMALfilter[name-filter][condition][path]=field_tags.meta.drupal_internal__target_idfilter[name-filter][condition][value]=13. Nested Filters: Get nodes created by user adminIt's possible to filter on fields from referenced entities like the user, taxonomy fields or any entity reference field. You can do this easily but just using the the following notation. reference_field.nested_field. In this example the reference field is uid for the user and name which is a field of the user entity.SHORTfilter[uid.name][value]=adminNORMALfilter[name-filter][condition][path]=uid.namefilter[name-filter][condition][value]=admin4. Filtering with arrays: Get nodes created by users [admin, john].You can give multiple values to a filter for it to search in. Next to the field and value keys you can add an operator to your condition. Usually it's "=" but you can also use "IN", "NOT IN", ">", "<", "<>", BETWEEN".For this example we're going to use the IN operator. Note that I added two square brackets behind the value to make it into an array.NORMALfilter[name-filter][condition][path]=uid.namefilter[name-filter][condition][operator]=INfilter[name-filter][condition][value][1]=adminfilter[name-filter][condition][value][2]=johnTip: when utilizing square brackets for multiple values filters, do not just use empty square brackets for a new value.
While these work when typed into the URL, Guzzle and other http clients will only create one value as the array key will be seen to be same and override the previous value. It is better to use an index to create unique array elements.5. Grouping filters: Get nodes that are published and create by admin.Now let's combine some of the examples above and create the following scenario.
WHERE user.name = admin AND node.status = 1;filter[and-group][group][conjunction]=ANDfilter[name-filter][condition][path]=uid.namefilter[name-filter][condition][value]=adminfilter[name-filter][condition][memberOf]=and-groupfilter[status-filter][condition][path]=statusfilter[status-filter][condition][value]=1filter[status-filter][condition][memberOf]=and-groupYou don't really have to add the and-group but I find that a bit easier usually.6. Grouping grouped filters: Get nodes that are promoted or sticky and created by adminLike mentioned in the grouping section, you can put groups into other groups.
WHERE (user.name = admin) AND (node.sticky = 1 OR node.promoted = 1)To do this we put sticky and promoted into a group with conjunction OR. Create a group with conjunction AND and put
the admin filter, and the promoted/sticky OR group into that.# Create an AND and an OR GROUPfilter[and-group][group][conjunction]=ANDfilter[or-group][group][conjunction]=OR# Put the OR group into the AND GROUPfilter[or-group][group][memberOf]=and-group# Create the admin filter and put it in the AND GROUPfilter[admin-filter][condition][path]=uid.namefilter[admin-filter][condition][value]=adminfilter[admin-filter][condition][memberOf]=and-group# Create the sticky filter and put it in the OR GROUPfilter[sticky-filter][condition][path]=stickyfilter[sticky-filter][condition][value]=1filter[sticky-filter][condition][memberOf]=or-group# Create the promoted filter and put it in the OR GROUPfilter[promote-filter][condition][path]=promotefilter[promote-filter][condition][value]=1filter[promote-filter][condition][memberOf]=or-group7. Filter for nodes where 'title' CONTAINS "Foo"SHORTfilter[title][operator]=CONTAINS&filter[title][value]=FooNORMALfilter[title-filter][condition][path]=titlefilter[title-filter][condition][operator]=CONTAINSfilter[title-filter][condition][value]=Foo8. Filter by non-standard complex fields (e.g. addressfield)FILTER BY LOCALITYfilter[field_address][condition][path]=field_address.localityfilter[field_address][condition][value]=MordorFILTER BY ADDRESS LINEfilter[address][condition][path]=field_address.address_line1filter[address][condition][value]=Rings Street 9. Filtering on Taxonomy term values (e.g. tags)For filtering you'll need to use the machine name of the vocabulary and the field which is present on your node.filter[taxonomy_term--tags][condition][path]=field_tags.namefilter[taxonomy_term--tags][condition][operator]=INfilter[taxonomy_term--tags][condition][value][]=tagname 10. Filtering on Date (Date only, no time)Dates are filterable. Pass a time string that adheres to the ISO-8601 format.This example is for a Date field that is set to be date only (no time).filter[datefilter][condition][path]=field_test_datefilter[datefilter][condition][operator]=%3Dfilter[datefilter][condition][value]=2019-06-27This example is for a Date field that supports date and time.filter[datefilter][condition][path]=field_test_datefilter[datefilter][condition][operator]=%3Dfilter[datefilter][condition][value]=2019-06-27T16%3A00%3A00Note that timestamp fields (like created or changed) currently must use a timestamp for filtering:filter[recent][condition][path]=createdfilter[recent][condition][operator]=%3Dfilter[recent][condition][value]=1591627496 11. Filtering on empty array fieldsThis example is for a Checkboxes/Radio buttons field with no value selected. Consider you have a field that is a checkbox. You would like to get all nodes that do not have that value checked. When checked, the JSON API returns an array:"my_field":["checked"] When unchecked, the JSON API returns an empty array:"my_field": [] If you would like to get all fields that are unchecked, you must use the IS NULL on the array as follows (without a value):filter[my-filter][condition][path]=my_fieldfilter[my-filter][condition][operator]=IS NULLHelp improve this pagePage status: No known problems
You can:
Log in, click Edit, and edit this pageLog in, click Discuss, update the Page status value, and suggest an improvementLog in and create a Documentation issue with your suggestionDrupal’s online documentation is © 2000-2024 by the individual contributors and can be used in accordance with the Creative Commons License, Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0. PHP code is distributed under the GNU General Public License.Thank you to these Drupal contributorsTop Drupal contributor Acquia would like to thank their partners for their contributions to Drupal. Infrastructure management for Drupal.org provided by  News itemsNewsPlanet DrupalSocial mediaSign up for Drupal newsSecurity advisoriesJobsOur communityCommunityServices, Training & HostingContributor guideGroups & meetupsDrupalConCode of conductDocumentationDocumentationDrupal GuideDrupal User GuideDeveloper docsAPI.Drupal.orgDrupal code baseDownload & ExtendDrupal coreModulesThemesDistributionsGovernance of communityAboutWeb accessibilityDrupal AssociationAbout Drupal.orgTerms of servicePrivacy policyDrupal is a registered trademark of Dries Buytaert.
